NMEA data
http://www.gpsinformation.org/dale/nmea.htm



The most important NMEA sentences include the GGA which provides the current
Fix data, the RMC which provides the minimum gps sentences information, and the
GSA which provides the Satellite status data.

GGA - essential fix data which provide 3D location and accuracy data.

 $GPGGA,123519,4807.038,N,01131.000,E,1,08,0.9,545.4,M,46.9,M,,*47

Where:
     GGA          Global Positioning System Fix Data
     123519       Fix taken at 12:35:19 UTC
     4807.038,N   Latitude 48 deg 07.038' N
     01131.000,E  Longitude 11 deg 31.000' E
     1            Fix quality: 0 = invalid
                               1 = GPS fix (SPS)
                               2 = DGPS fix
                               3 = PPS fix
			       4 = Real Time Kinematic
			       5 = Float RTK
                               6 = estimated (dead reckoning) (2.3 feature)
			       7 = Manual input mode
			       8 = Simulation mode
     08           Number of satellites being tracked
     0.9          Horizontal dilution of position
     545.4,M      Altitude, Meters, above mean sea level
     46.9,M       Height of geoid (mean sea level) above WGS84
                      ellipsoid
     (empty field) time in seconds since last DGPS update
     (empty field) DGPS station ID number
     *47          the checksum data, always begins with *
If the height of geoid is missing then the altitude should be suspect. Some
non-standard implementations report altitude with respect to the ellipsoid
rather than geoid altitude. Some units do not report negative altitudes at all.
This is the only sentence that reports altitude.

GSA - GPS DOP and active satellites. This sentence provides details on the
nature of the fix. It includes the numbers of the satellites being used in the
current solution and the DOP. DOP (dilution of precision) is an indication of
the effect of satellite geometry on the accuracy of the fix. It is a unitless
number where smaller is better. For 3D fixes using 4 satellites a 1.0 would be
considered to be a perfect number, however for overdetermined solutions it is
possible to see numbers below 1.0.

There are differences in the way the PRN's are presented which can effect the
ability of some programs to display this data. For example, in the example
shown below there are 5 satellites in the solution and the null fields are
scattered indicating that the almanac would show satellites in the null
positions that are not being used as part of this solution. Other receivers
might output all of the satellites used at the beginning of the sentence with
the null field all stacked up at the end. This difference accounts for some
satellite display programs not always being able to display the satellites
being tracked. Some units may show all satellites that have ephemeris data
without regard to their use as part of the solution but this is non-standard.

  $GPGSA,A,3,04,05,,09,12,,,24,,,,,2.5,1.3,2.1*39

Where:
     GSA      Satellite status
     A        Auto selection of 2D or 3D fix (M = manual) 
     3        3D fix - values include: 1 = no fix
                                       2 = 2D fix
                                       3 = 3D fix
     04,05... PRNs of satellites used for fix (space for 12) 
     2.5      PDOP (dilution of precision) 
     1.3      Horizontal dilution of precision (HDOP) 
     2.1      Vertical dilution of precision (VDOP)
     *39      the checksum data, always begins with *
     
GSV - Satellites in View shows data about the satellites that the unit might be
able to find based on its viewing mask and almanac data. It also shows current
ability to track this data. Note that one GSV sentence only can provide data
for up to 4 satellites and thus there may need to be 3 sentences for the full
information. It is reasonable for the GSV sentence to contain more satellites
than GGA might indicate since GSV may include satellites that are not used as
part of the solution. It is not a requirment that the GSV sentences all appear
in sequence. To avoid overloading the data bandwidth some receivers may place
the various sentences in totally different samples since each sentence
identifies which one it is.

The field called SNR (Signal to Noise Ratio) in the NMEA standard is often
referred to as signal strength. SNR is an indirect but more useful value that
raw signal strength. It can range from 0 to 99 and has units of dB according to
the NMEA standard, but the various manufacturers send different ranges of
numbers with different starting numbers so the values themselves cannot
necessarily be used to evaluate different units. The range of working values in
a given gps will usually show a difference of about 25 to 35 between the lowest
and highest values, however 0 is a special case and may be shown on satellites
that are in view but not being tracked.

  $GPGSV,2,1,08,01,40,083,46,02,17,308,41,12,07,344,39,14,22,228,45*75

Where:
      GSV          Satellites in view
      2            Number of sentences for full data
      1            sentence 1 of 2
      08           Number of satellites in view

      01           Satellite PRN number
      40           Elevation, degrees
      083          Azimuth, degrees
      46           SNR - higher is better
           for up to 4 satellites per sentence
      *75          the checksum data, always begins with *

RMC - NMEA has its own version of essential gps pvt (position, velocity, time)
data. It is called RMC, The Recommended Minimum, which will look similar to:

$GPRMC,123519,A,4807.038,N,01131.000,E,022.4,084.4,230394,003.1,W*6A

Where:
     RMC          Recommended Minimum sentence C
     123519       Fix taken at 12:35:19 UTC
     A            Status A=active or V=Void.
     4807.038,N   Latitude 48 deg 07.038' N
     01131.000,E  Longitude 11 deg 31.000' E
     022.4        Speed over the ground in knots
     084.4        Track angle in degrees True
     230394       Date - 23rd of March 1994
     003.1,W      Magnetic Variation
     *6A          The checksum data, always begins with *
     
Note that, as of the 2.3 release of NMEA, there is a new field in the RMC
sentence at the end just prior to the checksum. For more information on this
field see here.
